Operative Report

Result Type: Operative Report
Result Date: July 14, 2026 4:09 PM EDT
Result Status: Auth (Verified)
Result Title: CTS - Procedure Note
Performed By: Choi MD, Chun W on July 14, 2026 4:14 PM EDT
Verified By: Choi MD, Chun W on July 14, 2026 4:14 PM EDT

Age: 66 Years  Sex: Male  DOB: 08/04/59

OPERATIVE INFORMATION:

Procedure Name: AVR (29 mm Inspiris)

Indication for CABG: No indication for CABG charted.

Date Performed: July 14, 2026

Pre-op Diagnosis: Severe symptomatic aortic stenosis; bicuspid aortic valve

Post-op Diagnosis: Severe symptomatic aortic stenosis; bicuspid valve (Sievers 0)

Brief HPI: 66-year-old man with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis who presented to the
emergency department and found to have acute coronary syndrome. He had thrombotic acute
occlusion of a large diagonal and obtuse marginal branch. These were intervened on
emergently. He is now coming to the operating room for an inpatient urgent aortic valve
replacement.

PROCEDURE INFORMATION:
Surgeon: Chun W. Choi, MD
Physician Assistant: Deb Priore PA-C
Anesthesiologist: Dr. Muhammed Durrani
Cross Clamp Time: 69 minutes
Bypass Time: 50 minutes

Procedure Description:
The patient was brought to the operating room and placed on the table in supine position.
General anesthesia was obtained. Timeout was performed. Patient was prepped and draped.

A midline incision was made in the chest. Sternotomy was performed. Heparin was
remeasured.

Sternal retractor was placed. Pericardial well was created. Pursestrings were placed in the
ascending aorta and right atrial appendage. The patient was cannulated and connected to the
cardiopulmonary bypass circuit. Once ACT was therapeutic, cardiopulmonary bypass was
initiated. Antegrade was placed. LV vent was placed.

Cross-clamp was applied. Cardioplegia was measured. Aortotomy was made. Stay sutures were
placed. The aortic valve is bicuspid in nature. Sievers classification 0.

Valve leaflets which are heavily calcified are resected. Annular calcium was debrided.
Copious irrigation was used to clear out the LV cavity. 29 mm sizer was appropriate.

2-0 Ethibond pledgeted sutures were placed around the annulus. A 29mm Inspiris prosthetic
valve was brought to the field. The annular sutures were passed through the sewing cuff of
the prosthetic valve. The valve was seated to the annulus. Sutures were tied with core
knots. Aortotomy was closed with 4-0 Prolene in 2 layers.

Patient was placed in general evaluation. Hot shot was administered. Aortotomy stay sutures
were hemostatic. Cross-clamp was removed.

Temporary V wire was placed. Chest tubes were placed. Lungs were ventilated.

Patient was weaned from bypass and decannulated. Protamine was administered. Topical
hemostasis was achieved.

Sternum was closed with #7 sternal wires. Chest wound was closed in multiple layers using
heavy Vicryl sutures. Skin was closed with 4 Monocryl sutures.

All sponge, needle, and instrument counts were correct.

Gradient across the prosthetic valve is minimal. There is no paravalvular leak seen on
echo.

Signature Line
Electronically Signed on 07/14/2026 04:14 PM
Choi MD, Chun W
