TEE w/3D Complete.
* Final Report *

Result Type: TEE w/3D Complete.
Result Date: July 06, 2026 11:11 AM EDT
Result Status: Auth (Verified)
Result Title: Transesophageal (TEE)
Performed By: Strimel DO, William Joseph on July 06, 2026 2:35 PM EDT
Verified By: Strimel DO, William Joseph on July 06, 2026 2:34 PM EDT
AtlantiCare Encounter: M2618500124, ARMC Mainland, Inpatient, 7/8/2026 - 7/21/2026

The Heart and Lung Institute
Cardiovascular Services

TRANSESOPHAGEAL ECHOCARDIOGRAM REPORT

Study Date: 07/06/2026
Gender: Male
Age: 66 yrs
Height: 75 in  HR: 68  BP: 104/69 mmHg
Weight: 300 lb  BSA: 2.61 m2
Patient Class: Inpatient
Reason For Study: Aortic Stenosis - TAVR protocol
Performed By: Christina Muhlbaier, RCS, BSHA
Ordering Physician: Zia, Shahzad S
Primary Care Physician: Hutchison MD, Melissa M

Procedure Details: Physician performing the TEE Dr. William Strimel. A complete 2D
transesophageal echocardiogram with 3D was performed with cardioversion.

Comments:

Left Ventricle: Normal left ventricular cavity size. Hypokinesis of the mid to apical
anteroseptum, anterior wall, basal to apical anterolateral wall, and apex. The left
ventricular ejection fraction is visually estimated at 33%.

Left Atrium: The left atrium is normal in size and appearance. No thrombus is detected in
the left atrial appendage. The interatrial septum is intact with no evidence for an atrial
septal defect.

Right Atrium: The right atrium is normal in size.
Right Ventricle: The right ventricle is normal in size and function.

Aortic Valve: Bicuspid aortic valve. The more anterior of the aortic leaflets appears
calcified especially at the commissures. Additionally, there appears to be an independently
mobile echodensity in the region of the left main coronary artery which appears above the
valve plane. This may represent focal calcification or, less likely an atypical vegetation.
There is Mild aortic regurgitation. Low flow / low gradient moderate to severe aortic
stenosis. AVA measured at 0.62 cm2 based on 3D stroke volume calculation.

Mitral Valve: Structurally normal mitral valve. There is mild mitral regurgitation. There is
no mitral valve stenosis.

Tricuspid Valve: Structurally normal tricuspid valve. No evidence of tricuspid
regurgitation. There is no tricuspid stenosis.

Pulmonic Valve: The pulmonic valve is structurally normal. There is no pulmonic valvular
regurgitation. No pulmonic valvular stenosis.

Arteries: The aortic root is normal size. Mildly dilated ascending aorta.
Systemic/Venous: Pulmonary veins in normal position with blunted systolic flow.
Pericardium/Pleural: There is no pericardial effusion.

Conclusions:
Normal left ventricular cavity size.
Hypokinesis of the mid to apical anteroseptum, anterior wall, basal to apical anterolateral
wall, and apex.
The left ventricular ejection fraction is visually estimated at 33%.
The right ventricle is normal in size and function.
Bicuspid aortic valve.
Low flow / low gradient moderate to severe aortic stenosis. AVA measured at 0.62 cm2 based
on 3D stroke volume calculation.
Mild aortic regurgitation.
There is mild mitral regurgitation.
Mildly dilated ascending aorta.
** The more anterior of the aortic leaflets appears calcified especially at the commissures.
Additionally, there appears to be an independently mobile echodensity in the region of the
left main coronary artery which appears above the valve plane. This may represent focal
calcification or, less likely an atypical vegetation.

Electronically Signed by: William Strimel, DO 07/06/2026 02:34 PM
